The other presidents who were assassinated did not have a congressional committee that actually did research or had an investigation on the assassinations itself.
So, community assassinations, you had a couple of congressional committees that actually started that right after he was assassinated.
That's how a lot of records started to be generated by the federal government.
So that has a tie in as opposed to other assassinations that didn't have congressional investigations.
Does something like that have its own wing, its own... No, but it's not its own wing, but it has its own staff.
And do you have levels of security?
Actually, that reminds me of something else that we have in this building.
We have all of the classified materials, not for the whole system, because presidential libraries also have their own classified materials, but we have a huge declassification project going on.
It's an ongoing thing.
It is governed by an executive order.
And we have, I think, 425 million pages of classified materials.
But going back how far?
Oh, well, that's sort of a touchy subject.
The oldest document is World War I. There's at least one document that's still classified.
Is that right?
No kidding.
Do you guys know what it is?
I don't know.
Classified.
Beyond that, it's difficult to say.
There is a World War I classifier.
And does it have a declass on it?
Well, here's the thing.
The new effective order says that all documents over 25 years old will be automatically declassified for the next few years.
But there's a caveat in there, and the caveat applies to all different kinds of things like sources and methods and, you know, federal governments.
So that will keep a lot of records that are more than 25 years.
What source from 1917 would still be?
Well, you know, one of the problems for the National Archives is that, first of all, if one agency created a record, but they created this document in cahoots with, say, two other agencies, if the one agency wants to be classified, say the State Department wants to be classified, but it
had some bearing on DOD and CIA.
They have to send it to those two agencies.
They all have to concur.
And that's true with foreign countries, too.
So if we have a document that, say, was created along with another country, and we want to declassify, we have to get permission from that country, too.
So it can become a very time-consuming situation.
Well, there was a piece in the New York Times a couple of weeks ago about CIA.
Right.
I think I was the Wall Street Journalist.
Was it the Journalist?
Yeah, my wife cooks the Journalist.
Yeah.
Well, we, you know, this new executive order has done amazing things for us, and we've declassified, you know, hundreds of thousands of documents that ordinarily wouldn't have been declassified.
And this is an ongoing thing that the agencies are participating in.
So it's going to pry open a lot of material that wasn't open before.
But still, millions of haters will remain classified.
So, should we go on our tour?
Yeah.
That's all right.
Thanks.
I think we're going to go upstairs and come back.
What call?
What the researchers does, they come in, they'll check in the complex itself by giving their card to the staff, the security personnel.
Oh, okay.
Interesting little drama unfolding.
Thank you.
I'm sorry.
What were you saying?
Well, once you show your card to the security person, they'll be able to scan you in.
Uh-huh.
Everybody has to scan you in.
You've been up school now.
We're just going to walk home.
Come on.
And we also have a security classifier.
That's what we're fixed for.
And if you've ever been looking at security classifiers, you have to get permission from the agency to have some agency to do this.
And maybe you have to be cleared.
So where was all this?
You probably answered that, but where was all this material prior to four years ago?
Everywhere, right?
Yeah, everywhere.
It was down in Alexandria, Maryland, and we had staff and several different offices downtown.
The idea was to contain everything into our own building.
We still actually have a record center, too.
What government, is there a department, or is this just an independent agency that works in any federal department of
Bacteria or whatever.
I mean, this is under any... No, we're an independent agency, right?
We need our independence from the General Services Administration.
General Services, GSA.
Okay.
That's what I was thinking about.
Go check your research room.
And each research room has a desk that the research committee has signed into, and again, we scan the carnet.
When we do that, we're actually keeping the record of how many people use each individual research room.
That's why we scan the carnet.
And what research will do, they'll talk to one of the specialists up here, and they'll tell them the research they're doing, and they'll get them signing in so they can actually locate the images they want.
And once they find the images, they can reproduce the image themselves.
They can use the copy cranes here to reproduce the images.
They bring in their own cameras they shoot.
Oh, you let them do that?
Yes, you do.
We have two Polaroid copiers, so you can make Polaroid... So you have instant shots.
Instant shots.
And we have a color copier here where you can actually do a slide and a color paper copy from the photograph itself.
And the color copier is really very good because it almost looks like a real photograph.
Almost.
So we have those and we have regular xerxes that people can actually xerxes material themselves.
the private sector and if you decide you want to have photographs reproduced by the National Archives, we have some private contractors.
The federal government also has photographs by some very famous photographers like Ansel Adams.
We have his photographs here, we have Matthew Braggie's photographs here.
I didn't know you had evidence.
When you go to Prince Plus and you see the Ansel Adams photographs,
Look and see what they give as the source for what it should.
Sometimes it should say National Art Council.
I thought all that stuff was out of California.
I didn't know that.
Actually, I think the Library of Congress will come too, but we have a large portion that you can work for the federal government.
So any of these famous photographers like Dorothea Lange, Lewis Hines, whenever they were contracted by the federal government to do work, we then have their original name.
So all the WPA photos are here?
Actually, they're not.
Not all of them are here.
They're at the Library of Congress.
A lot of them are.
But the ones that work...
done for congressional investigations.
The Walker Evans photos.
Some of those are here.
A lot of those are .
We have a huge collection of the Matthew Brady photographs and the original glass plate magnets.
Wow.
And in fact, our lab downstairs designs special housing for those glass plate magnets, so they're each in their own housing so they won't get broken and they don't get used in.
So if somebody asks to see an original Lance and Laddams photo,
Do you let them?
Well, I think it's on sort of a need basis.
It depends.
I think Adams, they're going to have prints of it.
That's right.
But also, Adams did his own prints, and he did every one differently, so a case could be made that you might want.
Well, that's right.
In that case, I mean, if you could make your case, you could probably see it.
It's sort of like with the treaty that I was telling you about.
You know, it's on microfilm.
They're printed.
But if you have a particular need, a real reason... If you're writing a book and you need to compare and contrast something, that would be the kind of need that we would ask to say yes to it.
Because we know you would need that to actually make your argument with whatever you're doing in the book that you're writing.
I was going to tell you the kind of research that actually uses up here.
I think most of these people who are in here now are doing research for...
documentary films.
Some of them are not.
I think the gentleman over here may be doing research.
I've been doing research in World War II.
We have all kinds of purposes for doing research.
People come up here to look at the photographs we have on the art that was
confiscated or found in World War II.
And people have come up here to do a research on some of the atrocities in World War II.
Do you know your way around?
A little bit.
What we've done in the security area, we have to have a need to get into the back area.
If you don't have the unit that has the left back area trans now, you ought to take it in.
This is the Michael Trump reading room up here.
And this is a self-service room.
And most of the records here are the records that are published on Microphone.
And we have a Microphone publication.
But one of the largest collections we have up here are the records from the Browning Document Center Microphone.
And those records are records about the SS personnel, the German SS personnel.
You can probably return the originals to the Republic of Germany, and in turn they've given us the microfilm back.
That was the deal in doing that.
Those records are here now.
We're getting a lot of interesting.
I think our research in those records has increased because they have a lot of good information on the people who are actually in there.
That's the officers and the listeners.
That's in a lot of the collections.
These are files, by the way.
Are these actual microphones?
Yeah.
These are all kinds of microphones.
Yeah, microphones and microphones.
This depends on the technology.
An individual can't come and take something?
Somebody has to get us for them?
No, yes, they can.
If they use the filing aid,
And then they'll identify what they want.
They will come to the door itself, take it out, and then go to one of the doors.
It's really simple.
The archives are trying to build and have more self-service items in the special archive musical.
I have to turn the motion to send a video on, I think.
All the videos, that's been coming back.
The motion to do research, the former youth here are people that like to move out and lift themselves.
and the news media this is the most specific research room and this is another room that we try to have self-service as much as possible when we make new um recent copies of items we put on video tape now and if there's no um
restrictions through copyright or donor restrictions you put on itself.
This is one of them to come out, okay?
The copy that we have, you know, the films that the federal government would produce or acquire over the years, and the earliest film we have,
It's a donated film from the Edison Collection, Thomas Almond Film Collection.
And we go up to almost, we're about a government film maybe 20 years behind the time except for television news.
And if we have motion picture film, people look at the film in here.
And you can, once again, you can copy right out if it's excessive in public domain and a large part of our system.
Do you have to pay to use the distribution?
No.
It's free.
And you can break your own copy.
So if you're in the news media and you want to come and get it in store, just put it in the news that night.
You're coming, you pull it off the shelf, and then you can copy and get it out of here.
And I don't want to take good time.
Really?
The only thing that happens is that what you're talking about is that it doesn't work as policy.
Right, but they use it on broadcast because they're taking it from the word print.
But we're also making copies that we have in both parties.
What the National Archives does is different from other archives is that we actually allow researchers to have cart or practice anywhere from one box to 24 boxes at a time.
And the research that we'll do, when they're doing textual records, they'll come in and they'll register at the desk all the way over, they'll register there, and then they'll tell us what type of records they're looking for.
They're looking for records that were created by a civilian agency.
We will tell them they have to go down to room 2600 to get expert advice.
If it's a military agency, there's room 2400 to get expert advice.
And we ask researchers to handle records a certain way, like to have one folder out of the box at a time.
And when you copy it and tab everything you're going to copy and bring it up so we can inspect it.
And when we're inspecting documents, we're trying to make sure that the document no longer has the security classification on it, that it's in good condition and can be copied.
If it's in poor condition, the researcher cannot copy it and we have to notify the lab so they can do some type of preservation work too.
You know, a lot of these things are security measures because we don't have an item-by-item control of the stuff in the archives.
So we don't know if something is stolen until it turns up on the open market, generally.
And that's what happened with Charles Merrill Mount and that famous heist of his.
In fact, I got the call on a Friday afternoon.
Some bookseller in Boston called me and said, how would you know if something was taken from the National Archives?
And I was asking if I wouldn't.
Well, that was L.C., was he?
No, he did both.
He did both.
And what he tried to tell to the Boston bookseller was a Civil War document that had Abraham Lincoln's signature.
So when he said, well, you know, I think I have something that belongs to you, I really sort of sat up and took note and passed along to, of course, the appropriate people.
And in fact, those documents had been footnoted in a book, and I think they had been on the microphone.
So then we were able to prove with the microphone and the footnote to a book that those documents had been found in the National Archives, and they were no longer here, and therefore they were ours.
But otherwise, you know— Well, because as you said earlier, you are dealing with unique documents.
That's right.
But, you know, a lot of these documents are unique, but they've never been microcommed, they've never been cited in a book.
So if somebody were to walk out with them, we couldn't really prove that they belonged to us.
So what we have to do is to take measures to prevent this from happening so that we don't get into a situation of having to prove.
So the measures here you have that you hope are much stronger security measures at the source, right?
Exactly.
That's why we have clean research rooms, as does LC.
We don't allow people in our SAC areas
We check people coming in and going out.
Yeah, but now you let people come up here with equipment with bags and stuff?
No.
No, not really.
They don't have bags.
If we had walked through somebody with a bag, I would have actually started to talk in there and take the bag off.
Even the equipment that have pockets to it, they actually take the equipment out of that bag.
So like pockets, you can put documents in.
We get into discussions with a lot of researchers who think that it's okay to have the
the bag with the pocket, and I can explain to them why we don't do that, and they still don't understand.
So we try our best not to have anything that comes to the National Archives to have an enclosure.
No enclosure.
You have to kind of prove it.
You know, and nothing to both of us.
You know, we count ourselves as being very fortunate, because we haven't had any situations like Charles Merle-Mouth since then.
Well, I wrote a book about the great book, Thief of the Twain, and the FBI said, you know, don't fret it if you're a librarian.
This guy is a master thief.
He'll get in, you know.
Okay.
Come on, thank you.
And this is how we keep the film.
We would film an archival site basically as like
You stack them on top of each other, and that's when you go to a library on that side, and that's not the correct way to do it.
So they can go to the side and get all that pressure coming down.
It's all still in here, right?
Nope.
I don't know directly.
You can go down this way, or the same book is down this way.
It's basically all the track areas, including our complex track areas, except that they have a box of those shelves instead of shelves.
So these volumes were prepared to be moved here.
Our conservation lab has these.
And they left them.
They have, um, these volcanoes we call, um, live rocks.
They're beginning to, uh, be composed and what do you call it?
I think it's called weird one.
I think that's the type of term that we call it.
It's not, um, it's not brittle, it's just that... See, we've got a shrink wrap.
It's shrink wrap for movement.
And we leave them here until someone wants to look at them, so actually you can see whether any of these questions or questions they have.
In fact, the move was very beneficial for us because it gave us a greater intellectual control over what we had.
Also, it allowed us to move records around even in the old building so that they could be all together because the building was so overgrown in terms of storage.
that you had, you know, records that had records that had records that had records that had records that had records that had records that had records that had records that had records that had records that had records that had records that had records that had records that had records that had records that had records that had records that had records that had records
What did you do to train to be an archivist?
I told you.
For me personally, I have a degree in history and I've taken graduate courses in the public administration at American University and I applied for a job and I was selected.
The most important thing for National Archives is that you have a background in history, especially U.S.
history.
Most of the people here have either advanced degrees or
have worked toward an advanced degree, and the undergraduate degree usually is in history.
An advanced degree may be in history or political science or public administration, but most of the people here are kind of history people.
How about the nips and bolts of the archival process, though?
What do you... Well, we have a training program here, one of the sort of preeminent ones in the country.
We call it our SIDS program, and you can come in as a... What do you call it?
What do you call the program?
SIDS.
It's Career Intern Development.
That's what it stands for.
Career Intern Development.
It's basically an intern system that you get, each year you get different level assignments that prepare you to be able to work as an architect at the full performance level.
I mean, that's how you become an archivist here, really.
First, people have some type of desire to work in history, then they apply for the job as an archivist, and they get selected for this program, and at the end of it, they're considered to be archivists.
Okay, so did you turn your off, basically?
Right, we do, we do.
Just last week, I was at the University of Illinois at their library school, and there aren't that many library schools left, but there are.
Yeah, there's one at the University of Maryland, and we do have people who come to us from the library.
From the library school?
And there are architects who lead here and go and teach at library schools.
And then there are architects who come here from other archival institutions, state archival institutions.
But generally, Calvin is right, they come through the institution here.
And I think at least we used to have more PhDs.
I don't know if that's still true.
I think we rank just below NASA still.
Is that right?
How many people work here?
About 2,800.
Here?
No.
I'm not sure.
We used to have half employees used to come from the Washington D.C.
area.
Yeah, yeah.
Maybe about 800.
I'm not sure.
I still think that we have an educational level.
We have one of the highest educational levels for the other government agencies.
I think that's still true when you look at the total workforce.
We have a large number of teams coming in every day doing Nazi gold research.
We have a lot of government teams that come in, too.
Government teams come in and put them in the aisle.
What kind of documents would you go through if you were interested in Nazi gold?
You'd end up doing research in
The record's produced by the DOD after World War II.
And Treasury?
And Treasury.
And we have a finding aid for that.
Gray Bradshaw, who is the architect that actually deals with that, he has a good finding aid on that.
How do you search that?
About 500 pages.
And there are also, we have our state's department records, I think almost all agencies that work internationally.
You know, some of the organizations that were around on all of this, and we've been cross-eyed, and we've shown our primary efforts for this effort.
some of those figures they get them from over there they um carts are delivered over there how much can you request
24 boxes is what's put on the cart.
That's the most.
There's a holding area in the back where you can store them.
You don't have to request them.
You do or you don't?
No, you do not.
I mean, you request them from the holding area, but they're not reshowed.
You don't have to go through the pool?
No.
We hold them for three days, the last time you've seen them.
The other thing is you can copy anything that you can that's in good condition.
Yes, great.
Terrific.
Very generous of you.
Thank you very much.
You're welcome.
Take care.
How would I do that, do you think?
I don't know.
What I'm going to have to do is leave you with that.
That's great.
Yeah, why don't you call me at some place?
You know, if you don't hear from me for a while, is that because I've lost interest?
That's correct.
I basically have this whole book of research that, you know, I'm writing.
Hi, hi.
How are we here?
We project about a dozen chapters.
And, you know, obviously when you're working on one method, you go quite...
Yeah, it's wonderful.
I have it.
I have it somewhere.
I have a guess.
Can I make a guess?
Yeah.
I mean, the San Francisco public library is up to 150 million.
Could it be close to the day of the day of the night?
Am I close?
You know, I think you are.
I'm going to check you.
Oh, okay.
Yeah.
All right.
Thank you.
Do you want to have to wait for me?
I'm going to say that it's about five minutes now.
I don't know what to do, but do you just direct me to that one hour?
We'll be showing how to get out and make sure we can go.
I don't know if you have to do that.
I'll briefly tell you what I'm working on.
It's a book that's...